The giant black widow spider is a tough, CR 3  poisonous spider. The marsh-dwelling lizardfolk can be dangerous enemies or helpful—if cautiously neutral—allies. The flesh-eating minotaur is a tough solo opponent for higher-level characters or the  deadly boss of a tribe of orcs or goblins. The wererat is a sneaky shapeshifter, relying on stealth and sneak attacks instead of a frontal assault like the werewolf. 
the entrance to the old mine. The outside of the mine is a natural cave supported by thick timbers and extending straight into the hillside. You can see fragments of old tools, rusted mine cart rails, and a few recent dwarven boot prints, but it is otherwise quiet. Before you enter the mine, you have time to light torches, cast spells, and make other preparations. 
This room has clues that the mines are inhabited by monsters and the missing dwarves fought here. When the PCs enter this area, draw it on the map, and read the following to them. 
The rusty mine cart rails crisscross the floor in this area, leading west, north, east, and back south to the entrance. Dwarven boot prints are visible all over the dirt floor. The ground to the northeast was recently scorched by fire. A patch of stone on the northwest wall looks paler than the surrounding stone. When the dwarf prospectors were here, they looked around and used a mining pick to chisel out a piece of the wall to examine it for gold (creating the pale patch). When they went north to Area 2, they found a swarm of hatchling spiders and the spider mother, ran back to this area, then used alchemist’s fire to kill the swarm (which created the scorched area on the ground). The mother spider retreated to her lair, and the dwarves went east to Area 3. 
If any PCs examine the boot prints, have each searching PC make a Perception check. Any PC who gets a 15 or higher can tell that while there are prints leading east, none of the prints are coming from the east—whatever dwarves went that way never came back again. Any PC who gets a 20 or higher can tell that some of the prints are from walking, but there are two sets of running prints coming from the north. 
If any PCs examine the scorch mark, have each searching PC make a Perception check. Any PC who gets a 10 or higher finds a dozen hand-sized dead, burned spiders in the blackened dirt. Any PC who gets a 15 or higher spots the broken glass remnants of a flask of alchemist’s fire.  
The walls of the mine are dirty and covered in soot from long-ago torches, except in this area, where it looks like a chunk of stone was broken out of the wall with a tool. If a PC examines the pale area using a light (not with dark vision), have the PC make a DC 15 Perception check. If the PC succeeds, she notices a few faint yellow glitters in the rock—gold! 
PCs an advantage in a later battle. Very hard-to-spot clues may be DC 20 or higher, and only PCs with very good bonuses on Perception checks have a reasonable chance of finding them. 
Although the dwarf prospectors managed to kill the swarm of little spiders, the mother spider still lairs in this cave, and she needs to eat well so she can lay more eggs. When the PCs enter this area, draw it on the map, and read the following to them. 
The mine cart rails continue northward into a collapsed mine tunnel. The walls, floor, and ceiling are covered in a light layer of spider webbing, as is the rubble from the collapse. Webbed to the floor in the far-right corner is a crusty mass of hatched spider eggs and the bloodless carcasses of several rabbits and a fox. Dwarven footprints enter this area but don’t get far before turning south again. 
The webs cling to the rocks like they’re forming the inside of a cocoon. They do not fill squares, trap characters, or block vision, but they are sticky enough that they slow down PCs walking on them, and count as difficult terrain (Hero’s Handbook, page 55). The webs don’t slow down the mother spider. 
This combat begins with a surprise round. Any characters who are surprised can’t take any actions in the surprise round, and creatures that aren’t surprised (including the spider) can only take one standard action or one move action in the surprise round, not both. Have everyone roll initiative as normal (even if they are surprised). The spider and any PCs who aren’t surprised take their actions in the surprise round, in initiative order (skip anyone who is surprised). After the surprise round, everyone can act normally—nobody is surprised, and everyone can take a standard action, move action, and free action each round. 
The mother spider living here is hiding in a small gap in the rubble, as marked on the map. If a PC gets within 5 feet (1 square) of her, or if the PCs remain in this room for more than 2 rounds, she attacks. When the spider decides to attack, all PCs must make Perception skill checks. Secretly roll a Stealth skill check for the spider (1d20+13). PCs whose result on the Perception check is equal to or greater than the result of the spider’s Stealth check notice the spider before she attacks and are not surprised. Those who fail are surprised. Proceed to the Combat! section. 
Each time the spider bites a character, the character must make a Fortitude saving throw with a Difficulty Class (DC) of 14. If the character is successful, he resists the poison. If the character fails the save, he is sickened for 1 minute (10 rounds). A sickened character takes a –2 penalty on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks. If bitten again, another failed save increases the duration by 1 minute. 
Stuck in the spider’s webs are 15 gp, 55 sp, and a vial of orange liquid (a potion of healing). 
The dwarves went through this area and north to Area 4, where an earth elemental attacked them. When the PCs enter this area, draw it on the map, and read the following to them. 
The tunnel continues eastward, then turns north. In the northwest corner on the ground is a male dwarf dressed in miner’s work clothes. He looks like he’s been beaten, and it’s hard to tell if he is alive or not. Based on the direction of his body, it looks like he was running toward the southwest before he was struck down. 
The unconscious dwarf is a prospector named Grald. Any PC who spends a standard action examining him can see that he is still alive, but unconscious from his injuries. He currently has –2 hit points. If the PCs can raise his hit points to at least 0 (such as by using a cure light wounds spell, channel energy, the Heal skill, or a cleric of Sarenrae’s rebuke death ability), he wakes up. When he realizes where he is, he gestures for the PCs to be quiet, then whispers to them. Read the following to the players. 
"My brother Durn and I were attacked by a golden rock monster living in a pile of ore to the north. We ran, but it got Durn first, then caught up to me. I don’t know if Durn is still alive. Can you get us out of here?" 
If asked, Grald tells the PCs what happened with the spiders (Area 2), the alchemist fire and broken part of the wall (Area 1), and the large pit (Area 5). All he knows of the tunnel north of here (Area 4) is that the monster lives there and there is a large collapsed area that glitters with gold. The PCs can talk with Grald as much as they want, but if they make a lot of noise or are using lights instead of darkvision, this alerts the monster in Area 4 (it doesn’t come to this location to attack, but it is aware of the PCs when they approach its lair, even if the PCs are using Stealth). 
Grald is a miner, not an adventurer, and does not want to fight any monsters. If the PCs ask him to accompany them, he follows behind the PCs, as he knows he is not much help in a battle. If Grald is attacked, use the attack, damage, AC, and saving throws of a goblin, except he tries to run away rather than fight. He becomes a little more confident if the PCs heal him up to his full 6 hit points, but still doesn’t fight unless he has to. 
This is the “boss” encounter of this mini-dungeon. Nearby is the unconscious form of Grald’s brother, Durn. When the PCs enter this area, draw it on the map, and read the following to them. 
tunnel is another male dwarf in workman’s clothes, lying face up. Two sets of dwarf footprints lead into this area, and only one set leads out. 
DWARF: The unconscious dwarf, Durn, is alive and stable at –1 hit points. The PCs can help him after they defeat the elemental, or can carry him to safety if they decide to flee the combat. 
Stealth checks opposed by the elemental’s Perception check. If they succeed and they start combat, the first round is a surprise round and the elemental is surprised (the PCs are not). However, if the elemental is alerted to the presence of the PCs (see Area 3), nobody is surprised, there is no surprise round, and combat happens normally. 
If the PCs surprised the elemental, this combat begins with a surprise round where the elemental is surprised and the PCs are not surprised. If the PCs didn’t surprise the elemental, this is a normal combat with no surprise round. This is a challenging encounter for 1st-level PCs. If they are having a hard time with the monster, remind them that they can retreat, rest outside the mine to recover hit points, and try again with a better idea of what the monster can do. For example, because the elemental doesn’t have fear attacks and isn’t evil, a cleric PC shouldn’t prepare protection from evil or remove fear because those spells won’t be useful in the battle. Likewise, because the elemental is an outsider and not a humanoid, a wizard PC shouldn’t prepare charm person since that spell only works on humanoid creatures. 
Instead of repeating the earth elemental’s stat block, when you start this combat you should have that page open and ready (or you can photocopy or hand-copy the elemental’s stat block). Many published adventures refer to monster stat blocks in another book, so you should get used to this method. 
When the elemental is killed, it shatters and collapses into a human-sized pile of rocks. If the PCs dig through the rocks, they find 10 turquoise gems worth 10 gp each and 5 pure gold nuggets worth 50 gp each. The raw ore in this area needs to be smelted to produce usable gold, so there’s no point in the PCs collecting it—they’d have to mine several hundred pounds of ore to smelt a pound of gold, and they don’t have the equipment to mine or smelt it. Besides, the ore belongs to Sandpoint, and taking it without permission from the mayor is stealing from the town. The PCs could decide to sneak up here with the necessary equipment, but it is hard, slow work, and not nearly as exciting or profitable as fighting monsters! 
Rescuing the prospector, Durn, is a CR 1/2 roleplaying encounter. This is marked on the map (as well as the 800 XP combat encounter for defeating the elemental). 
The earthquake that shut down the mine 30 years ago created a sinkhole here. The dwarven prospectors saw there was no easy way across and left this area to examine the other tunnels. When the PCs enter this area, draw it on the map,and read the following to them. 
The mine cart rails end no more than ten feet ahead, twisting and hanging over a rough sinkhole that blocks further progress in this direction. Fifteen feet beyond the near edge, the cart rails and solid ground continue as the tunnel continues west. 
If the PCs search this area, have them make DC 10 Perception checks. Those who succeed easily find dwarven boot prints in this area that come near the sinkhole, but none of them indicate that the dwarves tried to jump across or climb past this obstacle. 
The sinkhole is 15 feet square. The east side is about 15 feet deep, sloping upward on the west side to only 10 feet. It takes a DC 15 Acrobatics check to jump across the pit, or DC 30 without a 10-foot running start (see Jumping, Hero’s Handbook, page 35). The mine walls are smooth, and climbing across takes a DC 20 Climb check. The PCs can also climb into the sinkhole, walk across the bottom, and climb up the other side. for all the encounters the PCs faced, divide this XP total by the number of PCs, and award each PC that amount of XP. 
The purpose of this area is to give you room to expand the mine by adding more encounters. Perhaps there are monsters within who can fly or climb past the sinkhole, or the earthquake opened a connection to a deeper area inhabited by underground monsters. 
The PCs earn experience points for defeating the monsters and rescuing the dwarves. Each room’s map has an XP total for that encounter. Add up the XP awards. 
These spiders are larger, tougher, and more dangerous than other giant spiders, and use their thick webs to slow and capture foes before cocooning and devouring them. 
Lizardfolk are proud and powerful reptilian predators that live in swamps, marshes, and coasts. They reject civilization and prefer simple tribal life in their own lands. They are known to eat their dead enemies and allies. 
Whenever a giant black widow spider bites a foe, that creature must make a DC 17 Fortitude save or take 1d8 additional points of damage from the poison and a –1 penalty on Fort saves for 1 hour. This penalty increases by 1 each time the creature is bitten and fails its Fort save. 
As a standard action, a giant black widow spider can shoot webbing at a creature within 30 feet by making a +5 ranged touch attack. If the web hits, the target cannot move from its current space until it spends a standard action to make a DC 16 STR check to break free. 
A lizardfolk can hold its breath for twice as long as normal. 
Minotaurs are angry, violent, and fond of mazes where they can trap and confuse their prey. They never get lost. They sometimes work for more powerful monsters, or bully a tribe of orcs or goblins into serving them. 
Wererats are stealthy and nervous. Cursed to turn into hungry rat-human hybrids on the nights of the full moon, they live in sewers and sneak out to rob people. Many work for or run thieves’ guilds. 
A minotaur a large creature. It takes up a 10-foot-by- 10-foot space (2 squares by 2 squares). 
A minotaur can make its melee attacks against creatures 5 feet (1 square) or 10 feet (2 squares) away from it. 
If a minotaur charges, it makes a gore attack against its target (+11 attack bonus, 2d6+6 points of damage). 
This works like a werewolf’s curse of lycanthropy, except the victim turns into a wererat. 
Whenever a wererat takes damage from a non-silver melee or ranged weapon, reduce the damage by 10 (to a minimum of 0). 
A wererat can communicate and empathize with rats and dire rats. 
A cleric or wizard can cast any 1st-level spell into this ring. You can cast that spell once from the ring as a standard action, expending the stored spell and allowing the ring to hold another spell. 
This staff is made from golden wood with a circle of braided gold at the top. It allows you to use sleep (1 charge), hideous laughter (2 charges), and deep slumber (3 charges). 
This +1 heavy steel shield gives you an additional +1 to your Armor Class against ranged weapons. However, ranged attacks against you never have to roll d% miss chances from concealment or invisibility. 
This staff is made from bone-white wood, with a carved bone top studded with gems. It allows you to use magic stone (1 charge), consecrate (2 charges), and remove disease (3 charges). 
Anytime you take fire damage, subtract 5 from the damage. If you are also protected by resist energy (Hero’s Handbook, page 20), you only subtract the 10 points from that spell, not a total of 15 points. 
This appears to be a +1 longsword , but it has a –2 penalty on attack and damage rolls. Once you use it, you have to use it instead of other weapons, and you can’t get rid of it without a remove curse spell. 
This iron amulet toughens your flesh, giving you a +2 bonus to your Armor Class. 
If this hits a living creature (other than a construct or elemental), the target takes normal damage and has to make a Will save (DC 11) or fall asleep as if from a sleep spell. 
This leather-and-gold belt has all the powers of a belt of giant strength and a belt of mighty constitution. 
If this hits an undead creature, the monster must make a Fortitude save (DC 20) or take +50 damage (this doesn’t multiply on a critical hit). If you miss, the ammunition is destroyed and its power is lost. 
You can use the levitate spell (Hero’s Handbook, page 30) on yourself as a move action, unlimited times per day. The boots can only lift 300 pounds at a time. 
This silver ring gives you a +2 bonus to your Armor Class. You can only wear one ring of protection at a time (wearing a second one has no effect, whether it is a +1 or a +2 ring). 
These arm guards can be found in a wide variety of styles. They surround you with an invisible force field that gives you a +3 bonus to your Armor Class. The bracers do not work if you are wearing armor. 
You gain a +1 bonus on Fort saves. If Erastil is your god, once per day as a standard action you can activate true strike on yourself (as the 1st-level wizard spell). 
Once per day you can speak a command word as a standard action, disappear in a puff of smoke, and teleport safely up to 700 feet away, arriving in a puff of smoke. 
This cloak can come in almost any color or style. When worn, it gives you a +3 bonus on all saving throws. 
When you hold this skull in your hand, you gain a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls against undead and on saving throws against attacks from undead. You can only hold one at a time. 
This jeweled golden headband has all the powers of a headband of inspired wisdom and a headband of vast intelligence. 
This fine rope can hold 3,000 pounds. You can command it to snake outward at 10 feet per round and tie itself securely, unfasten itself and return to you, or knot itself in 1-foot increments. 
Eberius Tauranor calls in a team of fledgling mercenaries to Sandpoint to “help” an ailing business contact and relieve him of his family’s shepherd’s crosier. In order to retrieve the relic, the PCs must first survive or bypass a complex trap involving a series of collapsing columns. On the far side of the trap floor, they may search the ceremonial statues located there to discover the hidden cache beneath and retrieve the shepherd’s crosier they seek. As the PCs attempt to leave the chamber, however, the Bloody Knuckles gang ambush the PCs to snatch the relic for themselves. 
“Ah, so you’re finally here,” grumbles Eberius Tauranor as you pile into a private dining room. As the caked mud from your boots peels and flecks off, it disappears into the intricate pattern of the plush carpet in the private dining room. A pale reflection of the impatience that flashes across Eberius’ bloodshot eyes sparkles in the light from the common room as you close the door behind yourselves.  Although you are winded from your hasty preparations at his request to see you immediately, Eberius gives you almost no time to rest before giving you the lowdown. 
“A business contact of mine has recently fallen on hard times, but he can’t risk letting his rivals perceive his weakness. I offered him my assistance, and since then he has been... all too eager to try and pay back the favor with a single item from his collection. A few hundred years ago, one of his ancestors rose rather high in the hierarchy of Aroden — high enough to be granted a shepherd’s crosier, a two-foot-long mithral rod covered in gold leaf and gems. My contact may not even be aware that he possesses such a treasure, and I’d rather you not jog his memory. Since we have so graciously been granted this opportunity to explore his family’s property, I want you to recover that scepter. 
The PCs have no difficulty traversing Sandpoint’s busy streets, reaching the edge of town, and traveling to the nearby estate. Once there, they enter the ill-maintained mausoleum and pass chamber upon chamber of crypts and memorials before coming across a secret door indicated on Eberius’s map. 
As the PCs descend a narrow stairway, they enter the secret chamber rumored to hold the shepherd’s crosier.  
Magical, flameless torches illuminate this massive stone chamber, which features a strange series of columns rising from a deep chasm in the room’s center. The top of each column is flush with the surface of the floor and features an arcane rune. At the far end of the room stand two stone thrones on a raised dais. On the wall behind the left throne is a relief of a king signing a document while speaking to a crowd of featureless faces. Behind the right throne is a relief of a thief who holds a knife to a featureless man’s throat while picking the pocket of a nearby woman. 
entire fall. A character standing on a crimson column can attempt a DC 15 Reflex save to jump to safety before the pillar begins descending. If the character is unable to jump to safety, he must make an additional DC 15 Reflex save to avoid falling off the column when it suddenly stops after its rapid descent. 
Failing the save means the character falls into the pit below, taking 2d6 points of damage. The rune stops glowing after a column falls and all columns return to their unlit, raised state after 1 hour. 
At the far end of the room sit two dust-covered stone thrones, and ancient Azlanti words are carved into the stone walls. Many holes and gaps exist in suspicious places, but none bear traps. A successful DC 15 Perception check allows a PC to notice that the thrones can be lifted up (DC 20 Strength check), revealing hidden caches underneath. Religious scholars might note that one of the relief carvings does not depict an aspect of Aroden — a point that might help them identify which scepter is fake. PCs may make a Knowledge Religion check upon reaching the thrones and studying the wall relief carvings. 
Aroden — also known as the Last Azlanti—was a god of culture, humanity, and innovation, but he died around 100 years ago. It is said he walked Golarion in several different guises. 
Aroden’s 12 guises were the artist, beggar, craftsman, farmer, fisherman, hunter, merchant, scholar, shepherd, soldier, tailor, and thief. 
Treasure: On the wall behind the right throne is carved a scene showing an artist, a beggar, a craftsman, a scholar, a soldier, and a tailor. Beneath the throne is a small cache containing the shepherd’s crosier, wrapped in a ceremonial cloth covered in holy sigils of Aroden, and 400 gp. The scepter is approximately 2 feet long and 2 inches in diameter, is covered in gold leaf and small semi-precious gems, and terminates in a shepherd’s crook. Anytime the scepter catches the light, the bluish outline of a small winged eye framed by the hook shimmers into view. 
On the wall behind the left throne is carved a scene showing a farmer, a fisherman, a hunter, a monk, a shepherd, and a thief. The left throne hides a trove of holy texts, a scroll of daylight, and a fake shepherd’s crosier. This fake looks identical to the true scepter, which is located in the right cache. The false scepter has been altered by a permanent magical effect to make it radiate magic like the true relic, but a DC 15 Knowledge Arcana or Spell craft check reveals it to be a fake. The false scepter, while not genuine, is nevertheless worth 150 gp. 
hope to hold the first PC to make it to their side hostage until they get the scepter. 
As the first PC makes his way back across the rune columns, a band of thieves from the Bloody Knuckles gang enters the room on the far side and threatens the party.  
the fake scepter and leave the PCs in peace if the new arrivals can be made indifferent. 
If the PCs defeat the Bloody Knuckles or otherwise trick the thugs into leaving with the fake scepter, Eberius awards them with rationed praise. As an added bonus, he slips them a pouch containing a handful of gold coins and tells them to celebrate in style while here in Sandpoint. If, however, they allowed the Bloody Knuckles to make off with the true shepherd’s crosier, Eberius rages for a few painful moments before muttering to himself that he’ll need to find another team to hunt down the Bloody Knuckles before the relic disappears from Sandpoint for good. 
Having purchased information from a roving band of Varisian wanderers coming through Absalom, the Pathfinder Society has tasked the PCs with investigating a set of ruins in northern Varisia. Believing the site to be a lost Thassilonian outpost, the Society wants the PCs to bring back any artifacts relating to the ancient culture. of the Runelord, the image grants them a rare and valuable Thassilonian relic.
As the PCs continue to explore the ruins, the self-imposed goblin guardians of the Rockwhelp tribe assault them. 
The PCs make their way into the depths of the Lurkwood in northern Varisia and come upon a series of ruins. There, they trigger a long-dormant programmed illusion, which demands they declare the glories of Xanderghul, Runelord of Pride. If they can convince the illusion of their admiration Getting Started “Esteemed adventurers, we have a wonderful opportunity to be among the first to explore an ancient Thassilonian ruin here in Varisia,” Pathfinder Venture-Captain Sheila Heidmarch exclaims as you sit in the Rusty Dragon tavern and inn, eating your breakfast. The offer extended by her last night over drinks piqued your curiosity regarding both treasure to be gained and possible recruitment into the Pathfinder Society. 
Allow the PCs to ask any questions they may have of Sheila Heidmarch regarding the ruins they are about to explore. 
Below are some of the more common questions and the venture-captain’s responses. 
What can you tell us about Thassilon or the runelords? 
What sort of dangers do you expect us to run into?
When the PCs are ready to move on, describe their journey to Riddleport and a brief overland trek into the forest of Lurkwood and proceed directly into the first encounter. 
The densely packed trees of the Lurkwood forest begin to thin until a great clearing comes into view. Beyond the forest clearing and past the white stone walkway stand the remains of what must have once been a striking structure. 
Only fragments of the eastern and western walls remain, with a walkway leading up from the south. In the center of this now open edifice is a ten-foot-wide elevated stone platform decorated with various strange runes. 
A flicker of light encompasses the platform for a moment, only to be replaced by the form of a beautiful middle-aged woman draped in the finest of rune-covered robes. 
The woman’s eyes look out toward the walkway, taking no note of the decay or destruction—her gaze intent on something beyond sight. Without warning, a soothing voice comes from the form as her lips begin to move. 
This illusory envoy from the Runelord of Pride is a highly specialized spell meant to receive praise for the Runelord. Be sure to clarify that the voice itself is a telepathic effect, so the PCs can understand the words of the image. 
When the PCs are ready, they may at tempt to appease the envoy with praises of the great Runelord Xanderghul. 
Each PC is allowed one attempt, though other PCs may assist without giving up their own attempt. If a PC assists, he must add in his own embellishment of Xanderghul’s greatness. In order to satisfy the envoy, at least one PC needs to make a successful DC 16 Bluff or Diplomacy check. 
If a PC fails a check, that PC suffers the ire of Xanderghul’s envoy and is shaken for the next minute. Should all PCs fail the check, the spell resets after 1 hour. 
Once a PC successfully appeases the envoy of Xanderghul, the image smiles and nods her head before disappearing in another flash of light. In the wake of her disappearance, the envoy is replaced with a token—a stone medallion emblazoned with a rune of a seven-pointed star that would be of great interest to the Pathfinder Society. After bestowing the medallion, the remaining magical power of the outpost is exhausted and the envoy does not return. 
Treasure: A DC 20 Knowledge Arcana or Knowledge History check reveals the historical significance of the device: it is a symbol of dedication to the runelords and a means for the runelords to keep an eye on their subjects from a distance. 
by Yarg, or a PC wearing the Thassilonian medallion. 
Morale Hork cannot stand the thought of anybody else bearing “his” rune, and he fights to the death even if given the PCs’ medallion.
As the PCs make their way further into the ruins, their path takes them down a long-crumbled avenue of columns and archways. 
The sun beams from the sky above into the open grassland, reflecting off scattered white stones that litter the area. 
Leading back to the forest is a long stretch of stonework road; toppled columns and pillars hint at its great age. 
The walkway is surrounded by open grass, but any areas along the path covered in debris are considered dense rubble. 
to win a medallion from the envoy, and has now claimed Xanderghul’s rune as his own. Despite his recklessness, he has successfully led the tribe in countless raids on would-be trespassers to defend the site. 
If the PCs are not actively stealthy while dealing with the earlier encounter and traversing the walkway, the goblins are aware of their presence and hide behind pillars in preparation to attack. Allow the PCs a DC 18 Perception check to notice the raiders and act in a surprise round. 
Hork Shalesmash rides into view on Yarg, his wolf mount, at the beginning of the first round and does not participate in the surprise round. 
Before Combat Hork brazenly strides up towards the PCs once his followers are in place. 
Before Combat Yarg is loyal to Hork, and waits to attack until Hork casts burning hands. 
During Combat Yarg attempts to bite and trip any PC Hork is focusing on attacking. He continues to attack the same PC until Hork shifts to a new target. If Hork falls in combat, Yarg guards him against any further PC attacks. 
Morale Yarg fights to the death, protecting Hork. 
The raiders hide themselves among the ruins where the PCs are likely to wander. 
During Combat The raiders attack viciously but with little direction. 
They try to give Hork plenty of space, as he is known to be reckless for even a goblin. 
Morale If Hork is defeated, all remaining goblins attempt to flee. 
Development: After the PCs defeat Hork Shalesmash, Yarg, and the goblin warriors, they may continue to explore the ruins, but can’t find anything of particular value other than as historical novelties.  They face no further threats as they explore the ruins. 
When the PCs return to Sandpoint, Venture-Captain Heidmarch thanks them for their efforts in exploring the newly discovered ruin and praises them for retrieving the ancient medallion. 
She remarks that possessing the medallion might have helped them evade other guardians of the ruins. Any PC who elaborates on the battle with the goblins receives only a slow, chagrined shake of the head from Venture-Captain Heidmarch in response. 
Several nights ago, a group of thugs pulled off a successful scam in the town of Sandpoint. At their leader’s urging, they immediately set off through the countryside, thinking to put some distance  between themselves and the now-upset villagers of Sandpoint and let the incident fade. Two nights ago, they found themselves on the outskirts of the town of Galduria, and decided to make a tour of every tavern in town to celebrate their recent success. Midway through their tour, they encountered a horse-drawn wagon carrying a lone, haggard crone. Heavily influenced by the flagons of wine and ale they had consumed, the revelers stopped the vulnerable-looking old woman and roughed her up, beating her into unconsciousness and stealing a few gunny sacks of seemingly random possessions from her wagon. 
Among the items they found when they dumped the contents on the ground, the miscreants discovered a macabre black candle covered in strange sigils and smelling faintly of blood. In their drunken haze, they went to a local cemetery and lit it, performing a mock rite, imitating witches’ hexes and cultish chants. Amid all their fun, they didn’t notice when a pair of shambling corpses rose from a nearby  crypt and began dancing among them. Before they could recover from their drunken torpor, the undead tore them all to shreds. 
The player characters are sent by visiting Pathfinder Society Venture-Captain Sheila Heidmarch from Sandpoint into the Varisian town of Galduria to investigate rumors of an undead uprising. There, they must question the townsfolk before venturing into the cemetery late at night to confront the menace head-on. no obstacles. A successful DC 15 Knowledge Local check allows a PC to remember that the unorthodox magical studies of Galduria’s Twilight Academy recently led to a group necromancers losing control of their experimental zombies, which ended up wreaking havoc on the city and the surrounding countryside. As the PCs approach the town, they find the streets are largely empty and a constant fog hangs in the air, the result of vapor from the hot spring waters filling nearby Ember Lake condensing in the chill of early Varisian winter. A feeling of isolation and loneliness permeates the destitute boundary of town. When the PCs arrive, they find it devoid of the hustle and bustle of crowds that they are accustomed to from Sandpoint. The few folks walking down the streets move at a brisk pace, looking ready to break into a run at a moment’s notice. 
Venture-Captain Sheila Heidmarch leads the PCs through the town of Sandpoint as she visits her contacts in the city. On a crowded street, a man suddenly approaches her and presents his wayfinder (a magical compass used by Pathfinders). He speaks to her quickly and softly, then departs into the crowd and is never seen again. Read the following to get the adventure underway. 
In the hustle and bustle of Sandpoint’s market, the smells of spices and other exotic aromas dance in the air. After a brief conversation with a man brandishing a mysterious golden compass, Venture-Captain Sheila Heidmarch turns around. She glance at of you, gathering your attention before she begins speaking in a low voice. 
With that, the venture-captain whispers to her servant, who immediately begins digging for small bags of coin to hand out. Heidmarch says, “This should be enough money for each of you to secure safe passage to and from Galduria. I look forward to hearing your report.” She turns and disappears with her servant into the crowds of the marketplace. 
The travel to Galduria takes 2 days, and the PCs meet no difficulty along the roads, encountering few travelers and Galduria is a small trading town on the banks of Ember Lake. 
The disturbances have come from the western part of the town, the area closest to the graveyard. A widening in the street forms a plaza where a small stream flows into a cracked fountain. Around the plaza are the local inn, a small temple of Desna, and a watch post from which a single guard eyes anyone approaching suspiciously but does nothing. 
and can provide the PCs with the information they need to complete their mission. 
takes his promise not to speak of the thugs seriously, and can only be convinced to talk about them through trickery. A PC can get the above information out of him with a successful DC 15 Bluff check.
The town’s poor and downtrodden inhabitants have heard the sounds of wailing and shuffling movements in the night air, emanating from the graveyard west of town, and because of their superstition, refuse to go out at night. 
Rumors suggest that another of the Twilight Academy’s fell rituals must have gone awry. Stoic and resigned, the peasants seem to accept their self-imposed curfew as their lot in life and don’t give any signs that they feel anything needs to change. If PCs ask about the missing thugs or inquire about anything suspicious on the night they disappeared, they can learn from one peasant that she heard drunken singing from the graveyard on the night in question with a successful DC 15 Diplomacy check to gather information. 
Amelon Birm, the local priest of Desna and sole curate of the small temple that graces the center of the village, has been missing since the day after the undead first appeared. While the townsfolk assume he went to Sandpoint to retrieve necessary spell components or reinforcements to fight what they believe to be a growing threat to their town, he was in fact killed the very first night after the drunken thugs’ visit, when he tried to end the undead threat himself. 
A successful DC 15 Perception check while searching the church uncovers the priest’s records, the last entry in which states that he was going to investigate the old cemetery near town to see what the shapes moving in front of that strange light were. 
burning a bright fire each night. 
to speak with them, much less open her shuttered home to them. They can convince her with a successful DC 15 Bluff or Diplomacy check. 
If they convince her to talk, she tells them that a group of thugs beat her up while she was traveling on the road home and stole some of her items, including a magical item she’s been studying recently called a candle of night. She informs them that when the candle is lit, it animates any dead bodies within the area around it as undead, but it remains invisible during daylight. In addition, it cannot be extinguished save by snuffing the flame with live-flowing blood. Hazelindra adds that the PCs can keep the candle as long as they do not tell the Academy of her connection to this situation.
The cemetery is half a mile west of the town, and is accessible via a narrow footpath through the dense, foggy foothills surrounding Galduria. If the PCs travel there during the day, they find the remains of the undead’s previous victims and signs of undead activity, but see neither walking undead nor the candle. 
At night, however, a bright, flickering light pierces the cold mist that permeates the graveyard, emanating from a crypt in the center of the necropolis. Following the beacon leads the  PCs to the candle, which is in a small mausoleum. As the PCs approach the mausoleum at night, read the following to set the scene. 
A flickering candle shines like a beacon from atop a stone sarcophagus in this cold, dank crypt. Two rows of columns support the ceiling around a second sarcophagus, and six somber statues stand vigil  over the place of rest. The figures throw broken shadows on the walls, giving the appearance of movement and leaving swathes of the room enshrouded in darkness. The air smells of dampness and freshly  churned earth. Creatures: A group of skeletons, raised by the candle of night, lurk in the dark shadows of the mausoleum, and attack the PCs as they enter to retrieve the magic candle. The four skeletons are dressed like thugs—in fact, these are the remains of the thugs who activated the candle. The skeletal champion wears the garb of a cleric of Desna (identifiable with a successful DC 15 Knowledge Local or Knowledge Religion check). Defeating the undead is easier if the PCs extinguish the candle of night—see the Development section. 
With the skeletons defeated, the PCs can deal with the candle of night. With a successful DC 15 Knowledge Arcana or Knowledge Religion check, the PCs learn this minor magic item cannot be extinguished save by snuffing the flame with live-flowing blood. In order for the PCs to put out its flame (and prevent more undead from rising from graves along their path back to Sandpoint), they must douse the candle in blood from an open wound (dealing at least 1d4 points of damage). When the flame goes out, any animated undead in the graveyard quickly break apart, losing 1 of hit point per round.
The townsfolk of Galduria thank the PCs for ending the threat, and Hazelindra is most pleased, offering them a hearty meal as a reward for their efforts, as well as allowing them to keep the candle of night. When the PCs head back to Sandpoint to deliver the candle to Venture-Captain Sheila Heidmarch, she expresses her gratitude and admiration of the PCs’ work, and promises that she will consider them for any future missions she may have. 
The largest magic academy near Sandpoint is Korvosa’s Acadamae, where the staff and students summon countless devils and other horrors from beyond this world each year. 
Like most universities, the Acadamae is rife with intense academic rivalries, and sometimes the rivalries can escalate with lethal consequences. Linna Montrovale, an instructor and faithful worshipper of Desna, recently decided that the increasing friction between her and another instructor was growing too volatile to manage, given her advanced age. 
Concerned with her security, she seeks to sell an ancient spellbook to the Pathfinder Society and make her escape from Korvosa with other sensitive documents tied to her research. The spellbook is titled the Azlanti Apprentice’s Codex—a book of 1st-level spells and notes. What makes the tome valuable is that many believe it was penned by an apprentice of Aroden before he rose to godhood thousands of years ago. While the veracity of the book’s origin remains unconfirmed, the arcane spells within are worth investigation by the Pathfinder Society, and perhaps the diviners in the organization can determine the book’s true nature. 
To make good her escape, she contacted Venture-Captain Sheila Heidmarch, who is currently visiting Sandpoint. Being cautious, she only told Heidmarch what she thought the venture-captain needed to know: she has the Codex, and for a fairly modest price she will let the Society have it, but she needs to be discrete about it. 
Heidmarch, suspicious that Montrovale might be in trouble, decided to act quickly, even if her instincts told her that getting involved with Academae politics could be risky. 
Knowing that making the trip to Korvosa herself would likely tip off whoever might be watching the elderly professor and put both at greater risk, the venture-captain cobbled together a team in Sandpoint to hand over the agreed-on price to Montrovale, return with the Codex, and hopefully find out what the professor is up to. 
As it turns out, the venture-captain was right to worry -- Montrovale’s rival, Gorbic Salmore, learned of her duplicity and sought the Codex for himself. With little time to prepare, he dispatched Cheh, a captive mimic, to subdue Montrovale in her private classroom and retrieve the book from her. 
Salmore warned the mimic that Pathfinders might be on the way, and instructed it to be quick about its work. Cheh sneaked into Linna’s classroom and performed a quick search for the book. 
grabbed the aging instructor. Stuck in Cheh’s adhesive, Linna was unable to escape, and she struggled to resist Cheh’s brief interrogation before the mimic’s constriction caused her to pass out. 
Cheh searched through the books that Montrovale had gathered, but he still could not find the Azlanti Apprentice’s Codex among them. Bored, and content to lick its wounds until somebody else finds the  book for it, the mimic now waits in the classroom. 
The player characters are dispatched by Sandpoint’s venture-captain, Sheila Heidmarch. Quickly moving to the Acadamae in nearby Korvosa, they make inquiries to find Montrovale’s classroom and discover her in a state of distress with her pet cat crying out and trying to rouse her. Should the PCs revive her, the mimic attacks and attempts to steal the Azlanti Apprentice’s Codex. 
Sheila Heidmarch storms into the Rusty Dragon’s open door and immediately joins you at your table. 
“Well met, friends! I regret sending you out on such short notice, but I have need of your services quickly. 
“An friend of mine has agreed to turn over a very important text to the Pathfinder Society at great risk to herself. In return I’m sending you with funds to assist in her escape from increasingly hostile elements in the Korvosan magic school known as the Academae. 
Sheila drops a clinking bag of valuable gems on the table, passes a map to Korvosa across the steaming plates to your hands, and nods authoritatively. She stands, cocks her head to one side, and exits the tavern as quickly as she entered, obviously busy. 
The adventurers travel to Korvosa without incident and begin just outside the locked wooden door to Professor Montrovale’s classroom in one of the many academic buildings of the imposing Academae (hardness 5, hp 15, Break DC 18, Disable Device DC 15. A PC who succeeds on a DC 15 Perception check can hear the sound of a cat mewling on the other side of the door. 
When the adventurers open the door to the room, read the following text. 
This old classroom has been well kept—magical, flameless torches light the room, dark wood bookshelves line the walls, and the hardwood floors are well polished. But the room is marred by signs of a recent scuffle. Books have been pulled down and thrown to the floor, papers are scattered, and in the classroom’s summoning circle near a polished mahogany lectern lies the crumpled form of an elderly human female. She lies face up, dressed in a dark-colored professor’s smock. A black cat perches on the woman’s chest, alternately crying out and licking her face, as if trying to awaken its master. 
The mimic Cheh lurks in this room, which also contains Apex, Professor Montrovale’s pet cat, and the unconscious body of Professor Montrovale herself. Apex acts distraught at her master’s  injuries, while Cheh hides in plain sight as a lectern until he can get what he wants from the PCs. 
Montrovale is alive, but her breathing is shallow. 
Montrovale has several cracked ribs and serious bruising. In places her robes are coated in a gray powdery substance (a further DC 15 Knowledge Dungeoneering check identifies this powder as the dried adhesive of an underground creature). 
It appears that the trauma was caused by something constricting Montrovale until she passed out. 
Cheh’s attack has left Montrovale on the verge of death. 
But Desna smiled upon her, and though she lies unconscious on the floor, she is currently stable at –1 hit point. Should the mimic attack her again, however, she has no way to defend herself. To revive her to the point that she can answer questions, the PCs will have to think on their feet. Montrovale can be healed to a maximum of 7 hit points. Healing her brings her to consciousness, but she is barely coherent and extremely fragile. 
Trap: While the characters assist Montrovale, Apex moves to a nearby bookshelf and starts to yowl. Should the PCs investigate (Perception DC 15 or easier if they pull books from the shelves), they notice a safe located behind the books. 
Cheh wanted to open the safe but found it too difficult for his aberrant form to manipulate. The cat, seeing the mimic focusing its attention there, knew something must be hidden there. Apex continues to howl someone opens the safe or Montrovale awakens. 
The safe is not very high quality, and it serves as a trap rather than a secure means of storage. PCs can pick the lock with a DC 15 Disable Device check, but doing so triggers a burning hands trap (see below). 
Disable Device check allows a PC to determine that the safe is not very secure at all and can be bypassed by merely prying it from the wall (Break DC 15), exposing a hole in which the safe’s contents are visible. 
If the PCs set off the trap and it appears that the book is lost, or if Cheh finds out that the book is a fake, he attacks the PCs if he hasn’t already.
Professor Montrovale has a small cache of potions in her desk drawer, which the PCs can find with a successful DC 20 Perception check. Among the items within are two potions of cure light wounds, a potion of bull’s strength, and a scroll of mage armor. She also keeps a bottle labeled “Medicinal Brew” underneath her desk. The bottle contains a strong alcohol that, if poured on the mimic, negates its adhesive for 3 rounds. 
rescuing her from certain death. If they present her with the bag of gems given to them by Sheila Heidmarch, she in turn gives them the Academae badge she wears upon her cloak. 
She tells them that Sheila will know the command word to change it back into the spellbook. If the PCs question her about the command word, she states that it was the nickname she had for the venture-captain when they were childhood friends. She then dons a hat of disguise, taking the form of a pimply young student, and quickly departs. 
Once the safe has been opened, the players find the burned remains of a false copy of the Azlanti Apprentice’s Codex. If the PCs somehow open the safe without setting off the trap, the book they find in the safe looks authentic from the outside, but all its pages are blank except for the inscription below. 
“Dear Gorbic, 
Nice try! 
Best Wishes, 
The scholars Mena Zamola of Sandpoint and Duso Galino of Galduria have been great friends for years. Though both towns are under the regional administration of Magnimar, Galduria is slightly larger than Sandpoint, due in part to the presence of the Twilight Academy, a well-respected school of arcane arts. 
Several times a year, Mena and Duso exchange letters and take turns traveling to visit each other. Duso made plans to come to Sandpoint and stay through the winter, but he is now nearly a week overdue, making Mena quite concerned. 
flesh of his fellow monks. When he and two other monks journeyed to Galduria to resupply the monastery, they met Duso Galino and decided to escort him back to their monastery, which lies halfway between the two towns. In truth, Tibaldo is about to feed Galino and the unsuspecting monks to himself and his ghoul minions. 
into a frigid mountain pass, discovering a cave that travellers often use as shelter. Inside the cave, the PCs must deal with an insane monk and his hungry ghoul minions. 
Her expression relaxes slightly and she lets out a sigh as she sits down. “My name is Mena Zamola. I have been expecting a friend from Galduria, a man named Duso Galino, but he’s s ix days overdue. I fear the worst. I know he was traveling west out of Galduria and following the coastal mountains south to Windsong Abbey, and then from there to Sandpoint. 
I have sent a messenger to the Abbey already, but he hasn’t arrived there, either. I know there’s a cave sometimes used by travelers in a valley pass between the two—maybe he took shelter there. I have a map.” She reaches into a pocket and withdraws a folded parchment, then and lays it on the table. 
The PCs likely have questions for Mena. Below are some sample answers. Mena answers any questions to the best of her ability. 
Located along the northern portion of the Lost Coast Road, Windsong Abbey is a religious retreat for devotees of any faith to study, worship, and grow in peace; its doors are closed to all but those who have taken a vow of pacifism. The PCs may wish to stop here along the way to further investigate what Mena has told them. A monk named Joachim can tell them three monks of the Abbey traveled to Galduria a few weeks ago and have not yet returned. The three missing monks are Piotr Oja, Ollie Lenstra,and Tibaldo Russo. Brother Joachim informs the PCs there is a cave that has been used for shelter in the mountains along the route to Galduria, and describes how the PCs can locate it. 
As the PCs travel further north, they can see and feel winter’s approach. Small patches of snow linger in shaded areas, the grasses are a dull yellow, and trees have dropped their leaves. 
The temperature is cool but not yet cold enough to expose them to any environmental hazards, even overnight. 
safe shelter within. What little of the tunnel is visible is icy and slopes upward into the caves within, and the roof is blackened with many layers of soot. 
spend 2 squares of movement to enter a square covered by ice, and the DC for Acrobatics checks increases by 5. 
continues to slope upward at a treacherous angle. Each PC attempting to climb up the icy slope to the west must succeed at a DC 15 Climb check. Failing the check by 5 or more results in the character taking 1d6 points of nonlethal damage as he tumbles ungracefully to the bottom. Clever PCs might use rope to make the climb easier. 
The slick tunnel ascends, narrowing sharply to the south before veering down and to the east. Beyond, the tunnel widens again, but icy stalactites hanging from the ceiling fill much of that space.
A dim light flickers from much deeper within the cave system. The light is actually coming from the Back Cavern, lighting that area and spilling into the Front Cavern. 
making an effort to approach stealthily, the DC for this Perception check is 13. If the ghouls notice the PCs, they move to set an ambush. 
Chunks of icy rubble litter the ground of the western portion of this cavern. There is a faint drip coming from the back of the cavern, and an icy, haphazard mess of jagged rocks juts from the walls.
Along the eastern wall, a corpse lies face-down in a brownish-red mix of snow, slush, and scraps of fabric. A soot trail snakes across the cavern’s ceiling. 
The corpse is Piotr Oja, who was returning to Windsong Abby as part of Duso’s group. Half buried in the snow is a backpack and bedroll, a flint and steel, a small cooking pot, a masterwork silver star knife, and a very slushy potion of cure moderate wounds. 
far south end of the cavern lie a corpses stripped entirely of flesh, muscle, and organs, and a groaning, terribly wounded man. 
Creature: Tibaldo has taken up residence here and—along with the ghouls—has gorged himself on the flesh of his fellow monks, and is now starting in on Duso, slowly nibbling the man’s intestines. If for some reason he did not engage the PCs along with the ghouls in the Front Cavern, he shouts with joy and attacks with an insane, glassy-eyed stare. 
Treasure: Hidden under the makeshift bed is a small chest that contains some assorted gems worth 300 gp, a scroll of stinking cloud, a man’s gold band ring with the name Galino engraved on the inner edge (125 gp), and 500 gold coins. 
Duso is still alive, but in terrible shape. If the PCs patch him up (such as by giving him the potion of cure moderate wounds from the front cavern, using healing spells, or succeeding at a DC 15 Heal check), he grows well enough to finish his journey. If not, he dies within the hour. 
Depending on the PCs’ results, Mena is either ecstatic or devastated. Either way, she insists on paying the PCs the gold as promised—though if Duso dies, she demands his gold ring as proof, asking that they leave it with her. The monks of Windsong Abbey are saddened to learn of the loss of their brothers but thank the PCs for putting an end to Tibaldo’s predation. 
Weeks ago, a sailor named Aldemar Lenstra shipwrecked on a small island in the Varisian Gulf. A beautiful young woman named Shabana who claimed to also be shipwrecked on the island nursed Aldemar back to health. 
In truth, Shabana is a green hag who has lived on this small island for years, scavenging off the wrecks of passing ships. 
Aldemar, suspicious of his good fortune, played along for several days. When Shabana left to gather food for them, however, he followed her and was shocked to see her in her true form, burying a chest of valuables he knew to belong to the captain of his wrecked ship, the Foul Thunder. Determined to leave the island, Aldemar quickly patched up a broken longboat and took his chances with the sea, where he was rescued by a passing ship. 
A local scoundrel named Krzysztof Szabo bought a map from Aldemar showing the location of Scuttle Isle, as he called it. 
them to “rescue” her before they discover her collected treasures. 
The Hagfish is well known in Sandpoint, particularly to gamblers, sailors, and fisherfolk along the waterfront area of town. Tonight the strong, delicious smell of Jargie’s Sea Stew draws in patrons, filling the popular tavern nearly to capacity. 
Raucous laughter comes from the bar where an overdressed, black-haired young man is talking with Jargie, the owner. The man places an order, then wanders around the common room looking for an empty table, finding none. 
Finally approaching your table, he smiles and asks to join you, not waiting for a response before sitting. 
The PCs may have questions for Krzysztof. Below are some likely questions and answers. 
The Sunrise’s Kiss and Captain Elliana Silva are meant to be a recurring element in these Beginner Box Demos. Since the demos can be played in any order, the PCs may or may not have already had prior exposure to Captain Silva. She plays a small part in the demos Isles, Masks, and Waves. She is a friendly, tough but fair captain who follows Sarenrae and enjoys the sunrise at sea (hence the ship’s name). 
after showing the map to the captain he had to offer her a larger share of the treasure because of the danger of sailing so close to Scuttle Isle. 
The ship gets underway shortly afterward, and the 2-day journey is uneventful. The ship’s mess is located next to the PCs quarters and is a central point of activity at night, with card and dice games following the meal. Captain Silva joins her crew for meals and makes a point to invite the PCs to join her to watch the sunrise in the morning so they can “start the day off right.” She asks any cleric of Sarenrae PC to lead a prayer, though she is not offended or upset by those who do not take her up on the offer. Krzysztof has a difficult time imagining starting his day that early and does not participate. 
to the nearby Scuttle Isle. 
There is a beach landing clear of shipwreck debris at the base of a freshwater waterfall that empties into a small brackish cove. 
switchback path up the cliff face. (PCs can notice this with a successful DC 10 Perception check, or else one of the sailors points them out to the rest of the group.) From the top of the waterfall, the green hag Shabana watches the PCs arrive. Acting quickly, she transforms her appearance to that of a beautiful young woman dressed in rags via disguise self. Hiding in the undergrowth, she makes her presence known to the PCs by pretending to lose her balance and fall. Once the PCs discover her, read the following. 
The young woman is aflutter with relief and confusion. “Are you here to rescue me? Did my uncle’s men finally come save me?” Shabana lunges at the strongest-looking PC, embracing him or her and kissing both cheeks repeatedly. 
The PCs are likely to have many questions of their own at this point. The young woman introduces herself as Shabana Neergah, from a moderately wealthy family in Magnimar. Shabana seems very cold toward Krzysztof, talking mainly to the PCs and making lots of eye contact. 
She laughs. “You’re welcome to what I have, but I’m afraid you’ll be disappointed. Most of my possessions were lost in the wreck. 
Shabana wades across the river at a shallow point, then heads down a faint trail that opens into a clearing. There is a small, wooden hut with a fire pit to one side. Shabana asks any accompanying PCs to wait while she retrieves her bag from inside the hut—then reverts to her true form and attacks as soon as they aren’t looking. 
Shabana carries nothing of value except a weathered key that unlocks the buried chest, on a cord around her neck. 
Whether the treasure is mentioned directly or not, Shabana suspects that is why the PCs are here, and if she survives the encounter at the hut, she immediately races to the treasure site to ambush the PCs there. 
Following Aldemar’s map, it’s easy to pick up the trail at the top of the waterfall leading right toward the buried treasure. 
Once there it takes 4 rounds of digging with a shovel or similar tool in the freshly turned dirt to uncover a locked wooden chest. 
A PC can unlock the chest with a successful DC 25 Disable Device check or by using the key Shabana carries. 
The chest contains an elemental gem (water); a scroll of vampiric touch; a wand of web; and various gold and platinum coins, gems, and jewelry worth 10,000 gp in total. 
Defeating the green hag Shabana leaves the PCs free to recover the buried chest and return to the Sunrise’s Kiss. Captain Silva is relieved to have the rowboat return and gets underway back to Sandpoint immediately. Once in Sandpoint, Krzysztof sets out to sell the treasure, splitting the resulting coins as promised (500 gp for each PC). Smugly satisfied with his performance as a treasure hunter, he tells the PCs that he will gladly contact them again should he come across a similar opportunity. 
One of Magnimar’s most influential houses, House Versade, recently acquired a rare, plum-sized ruby. Calling it the Fire of Versade, Savasha Versade has decided to display it publicly for the first time at her Angel Day masquerade ball. The ball is a high point of the Magnimarian social calendar, and Savasha feels pressure each year to top the prior year’s extravagance. 
Not fond of such parties, Lord Hobart Deverin has asked his niece, Sandpoint Mayor Kendra Deverin, to attend the ball in his place. Known as “the Simple Lord,” Lord Deverin’s health has been deteriorating for several years. He requested Kendra bring some “local heroes” along with her to show up the spoiled aristocrats. 
After traveling with Sandpoint’s own Mayor Deverin to Magnimar aboard the Sunrise’s Kiss, the PCs attend the annual Angel Day masquerade ball thrown by House Versade in the extravagant Alabaster District. House Versade is displaying its wealth and influence by unveiling a huge new ruby, and has become the target of a doppelganger thief named Nazari. Nazari attempts to steal the Fire of Versade during the party, but when discovered trying to flee, he activates the elemental gem to summon a fire elemental that wreaks havoc among Magnimar’s most important families. 
The PCs may have questions for Mayor Deverin. Below are some likely exchanges. 
The PCs might wish to spend 80 gp on a courtier’s outfit with accompanying jewelry or 175 gp noble’s outfit with a signet ring and various jewelry—characters not wearing at least a courtier’s outfit take a –2 penalty to Diplomacy at the high-society party. 
The journey aboard the Sunrise’s Kiss is uneventful. As it enters Magnimar’s harbor, Kendra points out the Irespan, the ancient ruins of an enormous bridge towering hundreds of feet above the water, as well as other landmarks. The ship ties up in the Dockway district, and Mayor Deverin emerges in an elegant green dress, reminding PCs that they can go shopping in the Bazaar of Sails if they haven’t already acquired fancy attire. 
is well lit, and the massive gates stand open to welcome Angel Day revelers. Two blond men dressed in scraps of white silk and sporting false wings harnessed to their backs greet guests at the gate, asking them to select masks from a small table behind them. 
the eyebrows would be are stylized characters which Mayor Deverin says are words in the language of celestials. In total there are four different masks, each type bearing a different Celestial word: “Eye,” “Glory,” “Honor,” and “Radiance”. PCs can select their own masks or roll 1d4 to choose randomly. Mayor Deverin explains that it is tradition to seek out others who are not wearing the same mask as you to socialize with during the party, but to dance with those who are wearing the same mask. To notice the word written on someone else’s mask at a social distance requires a successful DC 15 Perception check. 
Elegant ladies and noble lords fill this large reception room decorated with pictures framed in gold, exquisite dark wood furniture, and richly appointed rugs over the marble floor. A three-piece band plays in the corner. Everyone in the room seems engaged in one way or another: dancing, socializing just loud enough to be overheard, eating, and more. Servants dressed in the same fashion as the gate guards work their way about the room offering food and drink to the guests. At one end of the room is a raised wooden platform in the center of a beautiful golden rug. A 4-foot-tall pedestal of black marble sits in the middle of the platform; the top is covered with a crimson cloth. 
Nindrik Versade: A handsome and dashing adventurer with a high opinion of himself. 
Gradon Scarnetti: Ruthless and humorless, Gradon’s family controls Magnimar’s shipyards. 
Cheiskaia Nirodin: The matron of the Nirodin family and an avid patron of the arts. Rumored to have ties to Korvosa. 
Zimandi Kaddren: Young head of the Kaddren family who recently lost her parents. 
Encourage the PCs to mingle and roleplay. Many of the lords and ladies of Magnimar would be unabashedly fascinated to hear tales of heroic adventures. If the PCs ask any of the guests what is under the cloth on the pedestal, they learn that it is the Fire of Versade awaiting it’s unveiling. Mayor Deverin remains close to the PCs initially, but as the evening progresses, she works her way around the room attempting to socialize. Any time a PC attempts to positively influence a specific noble, have them makea Diplomacy check: the nobles start off Indifferent, but a result of 15 or better makes them Friendly. 
After the PCs have all had an opportunity to enjoy the party, read or paraphrase the following. 
she says, “Thank you all for coming this evening. Each year we celebrate the founding of our great, powerful, and free city of Magnimar!” She pauses as a round of applause breaks out. 
With that, she pulls the cloth back to reveal the empty cornice of the pedestal to the shocked gasps of the gathered guests. After a stunned silence, she shouts for the guards. 
Any PC succeeding at a DC 10 Perception check notices Savasha palming the plum-sized ruby as she withdraws the cloth. In truth, “she” is a doppelganger named Nazari who subdued Savasha Versade, took her form, and is attempting to use the chaos to steal the Fire of Versade. If the PCs try and stop her from leaving, Nazari dives into the nearby crowd of guests, knocking over Nindrik Versade in the process and shapeshifting into his form. She covertly crushes the elemental gem, releasing the fire elemental within, and gives a subtle signal (DC 15 Perception check to notice) for it to attack partygoers, hoping to escape in the confusion. 
Guests scatter and scream as the elemental attacks. If no one stops her, Nazari escapes in 5 rounds, still disguised as Nindrik. 
long blue tongue. 
Whether the PCs defeat Nazari or the doppelganger manages to escape, shortly after the chaotic scene ends, the real Savasha Versade emerges, nursing a lump on her head. She thanks the PCs profusely for their efforts and discreetly offers to pay them 500 gp each for helping to protect her family’s good name. Despite the chaos, Savasha has managed to pull off a masquerade ball that will be the talk of the town for years to come. 
Over the last few months, travel across the Varisian Gulf has become increasingly dangerous, for a pirate gang of crafty monsters has been harassing, pillaging, and sinking ships with growing frequency. Led by an orc pirate named One-Tusk Tauk, the so-called Horde of the Crimson Maw has struck fear into ships’ captains all along the Lost Coast. 
at sea on the 3-day journey, the ship is attacked by pirates, and the PCs must repel the Horde of the Crimson Maw if they want to escape with the relics and their lives. 
The Sunrise’s Kiss and Captain Elliana Silva are meant to be a recurring element in these Beginner Box Demos, also appearing in Isles and Masks. Since the adventures can be played in any order, the PCs may or may not have already had prior exposure to Captain Silva. She is a friendly, tough but fair captain who follows Sarenrae and enjoys the sunrise at sea. 
When the adventure begins, another raucous night is underway at the Hagfish on Sandpoint’s waterfront. Named for Norah, the beloved (and disgusting) creature in the filthy glass aquarium behind the bar, the establishment invites patrons to pay a silver coin to try to drink a tankard full of aquarium water. The few who can manage it win the coin purse hanging next to the aquarium, which holds the coins of everyone who has attempted it since the last winner. More important than the coins, though, the winner gets to carve his name in the ceiling beam over the bar. 
A young sailor, cheered on by his shipmates, has just failed to choke down the viscous yellow-green algae water full of hagfish slime. The assembled crowd lets out a disappointed groan as Jargie empties the rest of the tankard back into the aquarium. 
Norah slaps her circular, jawless mouth against the glass, then secretes more slime, making it impossible to see anything inside the aquarium. 
Allow the PCs to attempt to drink the tankard if they wish. 
The cost is 1 sp and they need to succeed at three consecutive Fortitude saves (DC 19, 20 and 21) in order to drink the entire tankard. Should one of the PCs manage to gulp down the contents of the tankard, he wins the current purse of 156 sp and may carve his name in the ceiling beam. The crowd cheers its support. 
while gesturing to a table near the back of the common room. 
Seated at the table are three women and two men. One woman wears a tricorne hat and a long black coat, her demeanor clearly singling her out as the captain. As the PCs approach the table, the other sailors stand up and leave. When they arrive, read or paraphrase the following. 
Allow the PCs to ask any questions they may have of Captain Silva; likely questions and answers appear below. 
What’s the cargo? “It’s best if I keep that to myself, if you don’t mind—loose lips and all. Nothing that’ll hurt anyone, if that puts your minds at ease.” If a PC succeeds at a DC 15 Diplomacy check,
Give the PCs 2 days to attend to any business or shopping they might have before setting sail from Sandpoint. The same stout dwarven sailor finds them on the evening of the second day and informs them that Captain Silva is ready to depart at sunrise. 
caught napping in them. 
from any PC on watch—those PCs not actively on deck do not get to make this check. 
that they reach the deck at the beginning of the second round. 
check or by dealing 2 or more points of damage to the rope with a slashing or piercing weapon, forcing that boarder to wait for another rope to become free or attempt to throw a new grapnel. 
Neither Captain Silva nor any of her sailors engage in combat— that’s why they’ve hired the PCs, after all. 
Remember that the goblins and orcs all have darkvision, and so do not need any light to fight. When One-Tooth Tauk climbs aboard, he immediately demands Captain Silva turn over the Thassilonian relics to him. If things are going badly for his pirates, he joins in the melee without hesitation. If he ever feels like he personally is in danger, he attempts to take Silva prisoner and ransom her in exchange for the cargo. If the PCs still refuse to lay down their arms in this situation, he stabs her in the side and runs for his rowboat, attempting to escape. 
they find another way back home to Sandpoint. 
Forty years ago, the village of Wolf’s Ear was a haven for lycanthropes trying to build their own community free of outside interference, but eventually Magnimar’s Lord-Mayor sent in soldiers to hunt down the creatures. Rumors persist, however, that there are still plenty of lycanthropes living in the area, albeit fearfully and in hiding. 
run a farmer off his or her land so they could move in. So far,though, a few savagely mauled farm animals have not been sufficient motivation to scare off any of the farmers, and Shala has decided it’s time to try a more direct approach. 
Approached by Yordan Zorakov at the Rusty Dragon Inn, the PCs are hired to help fight off a werewolf who has been troubling the rural farming community for the last several months. With only a few hours before the full moon rises again, the PCs have to arm themselves with silver weapons and try to figure out how to ambush the she-wolf and her companion. 
Read the following to get the adventure underway. 
Yordan’s friends all head to another table, but Yordan approaches your table and introduces himself. “I guess I’m sort of the head of this group,” Yordan says, embarrassed. 
“We’ve got a problem with our livestock—the problem bein’ that something’s been killin’ ‘um these last few weeks. 
Lucas lost two head of cattle one night, and Gustavo lost three hogs the night after that. Kantaro lost half a dozen chickens the week before, and just last night I lost a fat ewe. 
The PCs likely have questions for Yordan. Below are some sample questions and answers. 
The PCs may already know about werewolves. Have them make Knowledge (local) checks to see what they may have heard. 
DC 10+ Normal weapons barely harm werewolves. Slaying a werewolf usually requires a silver weapon. 
DC 15+ There used to be a community of werewolves called Wolf’s Ear in the woods north of Galduria. About 40 years ago, Magnimar sent soldiers there to kill or run off as many as they could.
DC 20+ A werewolf’s bite carries the curse of lycanthropy, causing the wounded person to transform into a savage beast during the full moon. 
Normal weapons aren’t very effective against a werewolf’s damage reduction, but silver weapons are. There is only one smithy in Sandpoint—the Red Dog Smithy, owned and run by Das Korvut. Das is a foul-tempered drunk, but his skill at the forge keeps him in business despite his poor customer service. Das only has a few silver weapons on hand at present, and forging new weapons on request will take several weeks, which is longer than the intended timeline of this Adventure. At present Das has 1 silver dagger (22 gp), 50 silver crossbow bolts (105 gp) and a silver short sword (30 gp) available. Somewhat uncharacteristically, Das also mentions that Father Zanthus at the Sandpoint chapel has a masterwork silver starknife. Father Zanthus is happy to lend the weapon to the PCs if they explain the urgency of the situation to him. 
The journey from Sandpoint to the farm in the southern Hinterlands along the Lost Coast Road takes a few hours and is uneventful. Passing next to Brinestump Marsh, the PCs are able to see where the Soggy River empties into the wetlands and its extensive waterways. The farmers make this trip weekly, taking produce and livestock to market in Sandpoint during good weather. As the PCs arrive, the daylight grows short, and only a few hours remain until the full moon rises. 
As the PCs arrive at Yordan’s farm, read the following. 
step closer to the farm. 
Yordan leads the PCs to his house, inviting them in and informing his wife, Pavlina, that they’ll have company for the night. Pavlina is very warm and motherly, and begins preparing extra food, setting extra places at the table, and making suitable sleeping arrangements. She doesn’t get a lot of visitors and makes a fuss over the PCs trying to make sure they are comfortable. 
After dinner, Yordan shows the PCs around the barn area, showing them where he saw the werewolf and in what direction she ran off. 
Allow the PCs time to prepare for the expected attack. Once they have decided on a course of action and set any ambushes in place, the still night is broken by a long howl—but from near the farmhouse, not the barn! 
Shala has returned, but not for sheep—she’s attacking the farmhouse! She attempts to break down the door while Kavoos stands on the road nearby, watching. If he sees the PCs attacking, he rushes to join the fight and protect this lover. Completely overwhelmed by bloodlust and lost to her lycanthropic transformation, Shala attacks anyone except Kavoos, and continues her attempts to break into the house whenever neither she nor her partner are threatened. 
If the PCs defeat Shala and Kavoos, Yordan is overjoyed, paying them 300 gp promised; later the PCs are able to collect another 900 gp from Sandpoint’s Sheriff Belor Hemlock as a bounty. 
Yordan and Pavlina help tend to any wounds the PCs may have sustained to the best of their ability, even offering a potion of cure light wounds they keep for emergencies. If either attacker is killed, Pavlina makes a great fuss over burning their corpses immediately. If either is left alive, the prisoners are transported back to Sandpoint to stand trial for their crimes. Either way, the PCs are hailed as heroes by the local farmers and offered free produce when they visit the Sandpoint market. 
Equipment Kavoos is carrying 200 gp in coins and another 200 gp worth of gems in his backpack—all stolen goods. 
Gear Kavoos is carrying 200 gp in coins and another 200 gp worth of gems in his backpack.  
